Zeus does not bring all men's plans to fulfillment.
A small rock holds back a great wave.
A young man is embarrassed to question an older one.
All men have need of the gods.
All strangers and beggars are from Zeus, and a gift, though small, is precious.
Among all men on the earth bards have a share of honor and reverence, because the muse has taught them songs and loves the race of bards.
By their own follies they perished, the fools.
Dreams surely are difficult, confusing, and not everything in them is brought to pass for mankind. For fleeting dreams have two gates: one is fashioned of horn and one of ivory. Those which pass through the one of sawn ivory are deceptive, bringing tidings which come to nought, but those which issue from the one of polished horn bring true results when a mortal sees them.
Even his griefs are a joy long after to one that remembers all that he wrought and endured.
Evil deeds do not prosper; the slow man catches up with the swift.
For rarely are sons similar to their fathers: most are worse, and a few are better than their fathers.
I should rather labor as another's serf, in the home of a man without fortune, one whose livelihood was meager, than rule over all the departed dead.
It is equally wrong to speed a guest who does not want to go, and to keep one back who is eager. You ought to make welcome the present guest, and send forth the one who wishes to go.
It is tedious to tell again tales already plainly told.
Look now how mortals are blaming the gods, for they say that evils come from us, but in fact they themselves have woes beyond their share because of their own follies.
May the gods grant you all things which your heart desires, and may they give you a husband and a home and gracious concord, for there is nothing greater and better than this -when a husband and wife keep a household in oneness of mind, a great woe to their enemies and joy to their friends, and win high renown.
Nothing feebler than a man does the earth raise up, of all the things which breathe and move on the earth, for he believes that he will never suffer evil in the future, as long as the gods give him success and he flourishes in his strength; but when the blessed gods bring sorrows too to pass, even these he bears, against his will, with steadfast spirit, for the thoughts of earthly men are like the day which the father of gods and men brings upon them.
So it is that the gods do not give all men gifts of grace - neither good looks nor intelligence nor eloquence.
The gods, likening themselves to all kinds of strangers, go in various disguises from city to city, observing the wrongdoing and the righteousness of men.
The minds of the everlasting gods are not changed suddenly.
The wine urges me on, the bewitching wine, which sets even a wise man to singing and to laughing gently and rouses him up to dance and brings forth words which were better unspoken.
There is a time for many words, and there is also a time for sleep.
There is nothing more dread and more shameless than a woman who plans such deeds in her heart as the foul deed which she plotted when she contrived her husband's murder.
We are quick to flare up, we races of men on the earth.
Wide-sounding Zeus takes away half a man's worth on the day when slavery comes upon him.
You ought not to practice childish ways, since you are no longer that age.
You may fetter my leg, but Zeus himself cannot get the better of my free will.
The dice of Zeus always fall luckily.
All strangers and beggars are from Zeus, and a gift, though small, is precious.
Open your mouth and shut your eyes and see what Zeus will send you.
Fate stands now upon the razor's edge.
This is the one best omen, to fight in defence of one's country.
Zeus it seems has given us from youth to old age a nice ball of wool to wind-nothing but wars upon wars until we shall perish every one.
Words are potent in debate, deeds in war decide your fate.
Among all creatures that breathe on earth and crawl on it there is not anywhere a thing more dismal than man is.
It lies in the lap of the gods.
Who dies in youth and vigour, dies the best.
Thou know’st the o’er-eager vehemence of youth, How quick in temper, and in judgement weak.
’T is true, ’t is certain; man though dead retains, Part of himself: the immortal mind remains.